No. 3
by John Jay
The same Subject continued
It is not a new observation that the people of any country (if like the Americans intelligent and well informed) seldom adopt, and steadily persevere for
many years, in any erroneous opinion respecting their interests. That consideration naturally tends to create great respect for the high opinion which
the people of America have so long and uniformly entertained of the importance of their continuing firmly united under one federal government, vested
with sufficient powers for all general and national purposes.
The more attentively I consider and investigate the reasons which appear
to have given birth to this opinion, the more I become convinced that they
are cogent and conclusive.
Among the many objects to which a wise and free people find it necessary
to direct their attention, that of providing for theirsafety seems to be the first.
The safety of the people doubtless has relation to a great variety of circumstances and considerations, and consequently affords great latitude to those
who wish to define it precisely and comprehensively.
At present I mean only to consider it as it respects security for the preservation of peace and tranquillity, as well against dangers, from foreign arms
and influence, as against dangers arising from domestic causes. As the former
of these comes first in order, it is proper it should be the first discussed. Letus therefore proceed to examine whether the people are not right in their
opinion, that a cordial union under an efficient national government, affords
them the best security that can be devised against hostilities from abroad.
The number of wars which have happened or may happen in the world,
will always be found to be in proportion to the number and weight of the
causes, whetherreal or pretended, whichprovoke orinvite them. If this remark
be just, it becomes useful to inquire, whether so many just causes of war are
likely to be given by united America, as by disunited America; for if it should
turn out that united America will probably give the fewest, then it will follow,
that, in this respect, the union tends most to preserve the people in a state of
peace with other nations.
The just causes of war for the most part arise either from violations of
treaties, or from direct violence. America has already formed treaties with no
less than six foreign nations, and all of them, except Prussia, are maritime,
and therefore able to annoy and injure us: She has also extensive commerce
with Portugal, Spain, and Britain, and with respect to the two latter, has the
additional circumstance of neighbourhood to attend to.
It is of high importance to the peace of America, that she observe the law
of nations towards all these powers; and to me it appears evident that this will
be more perfectly and punctually done by one national government, than it
could be either by thirteen separate states, or by three or four distinct confederacies. For this opinion various reasons may be assigned.
When once an efficient national government is established, the best men
in the country will not only consent to serve, but will also generally be appointed to manage it; for although town, or county, or other contracted
influence, may place men in state assemblies, or senates, or courts of justice,
or executive departments; yet more general and extensive reputation for talents and other qualifications, will be necessary to recommend men to offices
under the national government, especially as it will have the widest field for
choice, and never experience that want of proper persons, which is not uncommon in some of the states. Hence it will result, that the administration,
the political counsels, and the judicial decisions of the national government,
will be more wise, systematical and judicious, than those of individual states,
and consequently more satisfactory with respect to the other nations, as well
as more safe with respect to ourselves.
Under the national government, treaties and articles of treaties, as well as the laws of nations, will always be expounded in one sense, and executed in
the same manner: whereas adjudications on the same points and questions,
in thirteen states, or in three or four confederacies, will not always accord or
be consistent; and that as well from the variety of independent courts and
judges appointed by different and independent governments, as from the
different local laws and interests which may affect and influence them. The
wisdom of the convention, in committing such questions to the jurisdiction
and judgment of courts appointed by, and responsible only to one national
government, cannot be too much commended.
The prospect of present loss or advantage, may often tempt the governing
party in one or two states to swerve from good faith and justice; and those
temptations not reaching the other states, and consequently having little or
no influence on the national government, the temptations will be fruitless,
and good faith and justice be preserved. The case of the treaty of peace with
Britain, adds great weight to this reasoning.
If even the governing party in a state should be disposed to resist such
temptations, yet as such temptations may, and commonly do, result from circumstances peculiar to the state, and may affect a great number of the inhabitants, the governing party may not always be able, if willing, to prevent the
injustice meditated, or to punish the aggressors. But the national government, not being affected by those local circumstances, will neither be induced
to commit the wrong themselves, nor want power or inclination to prevent,
or punish its commission by others.
So far therefore as either designed or accidental violations of treaties and
of the laws of nations affordjust causes of war, they are less to be apprehended
under one general government, than under several lesser ones, and in that respect, the former most favors the safety of the people.
As to those just causes ofwar which proceed from direct and unlawful
violence, it appears equally clear to me, that one good national government
affords vastly more security against dangers of that sort, than can be derived
from any other quarter.
Such violences are more frequently occasioned by the passions and interests of a part than of the whole of one or two states than of the union. Not a
single Indian war has yet been produced by aggressions of the present federal
government, feeble as it is; but there are several instances of Indian hostilities having been provoked by the improper conduct of individual states, who, either unable or unwilling to restrain or punish offences, have given occasion
to the slaughter of many innocent inhabitants.
The neighbourhood of Spanish and British territories, bordering on some
states, and not on others, naturally confines the causes of quarrel more immediately to the borderers. The bordering states, if any, will be those who,
under the impulse of sudden irritations, and a quick sense of apparent interest or injury, will be most likely, by direct violence, to excite war with those
nations; and nothing can so effectually obviate that danger, as a national government, whose wisdom and prudence will not be diminished by the passions which actuate the parties immediately interested.
But not only fewer just causes of war will be given by the national government, but it will also be more in their power to accommodate and settle them
amicably. They will be more temperate and cool, and in that respect, as well
as in others, will be more in capacity to act with circumspection than the offending state. The pride of states as well as of men, naturally disposes them to
justify all their actions, and opposes their acknowledging, correcting or repairing their errors and offences. The national government in such cases will
not be affected by this pride, but will proceed with moderation and candour,
to consider and decide on the means most proper to extricate them from the
difficulties which threaten them.
Besides it is well known that acknowledgments, explanations and compensations are often accepted as satisfactory from a strong united nation,
which would be rejected as unsatisfactory if offered by a state or confederacy
of little consideration or power.
In the year 1685 the state of Genoa having offended Louis XIVth, endeavoured to appease him. He demanded that they should send their doge or chief
magistrate, accompanied by four of their senators, to France, to ask his pardon and receive his terms. They were obliged to submit to it for the sake of
peace. Would he on any occasion either have demanded or have received the
like humiliation from Spain, or Britain, or any other powerful nation?